The last thing I want to do is create a log at length.
There is already a log out link inside the admin WordPress bar but I prefer to create one inside the
theme.
There are two ways we can go about this.
We could edit the theme and add the link or we can use hooks in our case.
Either solution is valid since we're the creator of the theme but hooks work universally and we'll scale
better we'll go with the hooks root inside the main plugin file.
I'm going to add a new filter hook called WP nav menu items
this hook is triggered when WordPress begins to load in the menu items for a theme.
Navigation menu.
It'll be passed in the raw t email menu items for us to manipulate the name of the function I want to
call.
We'll be called J you knew now menu items with a priority of 9 9 9 I set a priority to a high number
as I want the logout link to be placed at the end of the menu.
I'm going to create a new file inside the includes slash front folder called log out dash linked up
HP and define the function here.
Lastly make sure to include it
since this is a filter function will be passed into value and be expected to return it.
The value that's passed in is items which is the raw HCM email menu items.
The first thing I'm going to do is create a conditional statement.
I'm going to check if the user is logged in I'll be using the is user logged in function to accomplish
this.
I want to check if they're not logged in.
If they aren't then I'm just going to return the items as it is.
There's no point in displaying the logout link if they're not logged in in the first place.
If they are logged in then I'm going to generate the link to the logout page.
Create a variable named new link.
I'm going to set its value to a pair of opening and closing ally tags in between these tags.
I'm going to call the function WP log in and out.
This function will generate a link to the log in and log out pages of WordPress.
However since we're only displaying this link if the user is logged in it will always show the log out
yourself.
This is fine by us.
This function has two parameters which will want to take advantage of the first parameter is the URL
to redirect the user to if they successfully log out.
I'm going to set this to the home your function I'll pass in a forward slash to indicate I want the
URL to be the route you URL that should set up the redirection.
The second parameter is whether this link should be echoed out or not.
Since this is a filter function and I'm returning data then I want this link to be returned by default.
This will be set to true which will echo out the link.
I'm going to change this to false.
To return the link now that the link is generated properly all we have to do is return the items and
append the new link variable along with these links after doing so.
Let's refresh the page and see what we get.
The logout link should appear if you're logged in.
There is one noticeable problem though the logout link appears in both the primary and secondary navigation
menus.
This is a bit redundant.
The filter hook we're using will apply our changes to all menu items regardless of their status or location
something I do want to know is that this filter hook will only apply to user generated menu items.
As you may know WordPress will automatically generate a menu item if a user doesn't have one set up.
This is usually the case on fresh installations of WordPress.
Anyway let's assume the user created a menu and we want the logout link to appear on the secondary menu
item only to force the link to appear in only the secondary menu.
We only have to make one small change back inside the main plugin file.
We'll have to update the filter hook this filter hook is dynamic.
This is optional though to use the dynamic version.
All you have to do is add the menu slug right after the WP.
Now menu phrase in this case it would be secondary.
Just like that the links should appear only on the secondary menu refresh the page to see the final
results.
That should do it if you want to learn more about the log in alt function.
Then check out the resource section of this lecture.